As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass tubes I have invented , I have had quite a small one made here of four glass tubes -LRB- in Copenhagen I used 30 -RRB- and intend to carry it with me '' .
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks , continuing their correspondence after he left .
With Ritter he was exposed to the fantastic profusion of ideas that stormed through his host 's fertile but disorganized mind .
Oersted remodeled Ritter 's notes into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut de France for its annual prize of 3,000 francs .
The sound discoveries of this quixotic genius were so diluted by those of fantasy that the prize was never awarded to him .
In May , 1803 , Ritter , in another flight of fancy , wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy .
He related events on earth to periodic celestial phenomena and indicated that the years of maximum inclination of the ecliptic coincided with the years of important electrical discoveries .
Thus , 1745 corresponded to the invention of the `` Leiden '' jar by Kleist , 1764 that of the electrophorus by Wilcke , 1782 produced the condenser of Volta , and 1801 the voltaic pile .
Ritter proceeded , `` You now emerge into a new epoch in which late in the year 1819 or 1820 , you will have to reckon .
This we might well witness '' .
Ritter died in 1810 and Oersted not only lived to see the event occur but was the author of it .
In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for the university 's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
However , he continued experimenting and lecturing , publishing the results of his experiments in German and Danish periodicals .
In 1806 his ambition was realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University , though not realizing full professorship -LRB- ordinarius -RRB- until 1817 .
During Oersted 's attendance at the university , it was poorly equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences .
He was , however , fortunate in his contact with Prof & J & G & L & Manthey -LRB- 1769-1842 -RRB- , teacher of chemistry , who , in addition to his academic chair , was also proprietor of the `` Lion Pharmacy '' in Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him .
Manthey maintained a valuable collection of physical and chemical apparatus which was at Oersted 's disposal during and after his graduation .
In 1800 , Manthey went abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy .
In February 1801 , Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates of zinc and lead .
In the following year , 1803 , Oersted , simultaneously with Davy , discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic battery more than did salts .
Eager as he was to pursue this promising line , he was so loaded down with the management of the pharmacy and lectures in the medical and pharmaceutical faculties at the university that he could devote only Sunday afternoons to `` galvanizing '' .
He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood .
The university was the only one in Denmark and the status of professor represented the upper social level .
His broad interest in literary , political , and philosophical movements opened many doors to him .
His friends were numerous and their ties to him were strong .
The years 1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again , but on this visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws of nature in German and this was issued in French translation -LRB- Paris , 1813 -RRB- under the title Recherches sur l'identite des forces chimiques et electriques , > a work held in very high esteem by the new generation of research chemists .
His interest in finding a relationship between voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated .
Chapter / 8 , is entitled `` On Magnetism '' and in it are included such remarks as , `` One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces with the electrical forces .
The great resemblance between electrical and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their laws necessarily would bring about this comparison .
It is true , that nothing has been found comparable with electricity by communication ; but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest difference ** h .
The form of galvanic activity is halfway between the magnetic form and the electrical form .
There , forces are more latent than in electricity , and less than in magnetism ** h .
But in such an important question , we would be satisfied if the judgment were that the principal objection to the identity of forces which produce electricity and magnetism were only a difficulty , and not a thing which is contrary to it ** h .
One could also add to these analogies that steel loses its magnetism by heat , which proves that steel becomes a better conductor through a rise in temperature , just as electrical bodies do .
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature , as proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb .
By that , one feels that magnetic forces are as general as electrical forces .
An attempt should be made to see if electricity , in its most latent stage , has any action on the magnet as such '' .
His plan and intent were clearly charted .
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and political discussions .
In one debate he supported the freedom of judgment as opposed to dogma , in another he held that the practice of science was in fact an act of religious worship .
He continued as a popular lecturer .
He devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was caused to glow by an electric current .
In 1819 under royal command he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm , one of the Danish islands , being one of three scientists in the expedition .
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition , Lauritz Esmarch , that Oersted succeeded in producing light by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric current was made to flow .
Together they also developed a new form of voltaic cell in which the wooden trough was replaced by one of copper , thereby producing stronger currents .
Esmarch was among those who witnessed Oersted 's first demonstration of his discovery .
#DISCOVERY OF ELECTROMAGNETISM # THE ASSOCIATION between electric -LRB- both electrostatic and voltaic -RRB- forces and magnetic forces had been recognized by investigators for many decades .
Electrical literature contained numerous references to lightning that had magnetized iron and had altered the polarity of compass needles .
In the late 1700 's Beccaria and van Marum , among others , had magnetized iron by sending an electrostatic charge through it .
Beccaria had almost stumbled on a lead to the relationship between electricity and magnetism when a discharge from a Leyden jar was sent transversally through a piece of watch-spring steel making its ends magnetic .
The resulting magnetic effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise .
The experiments of Romagnosi and others have already been noted but no one had determined the cause-and-effect relationship between these two primary forces .
Oersted 's own earlier experiments were unimpressive , possibly because he had , like other experimenters , laid the conducting wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it .
The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the university related that the first direct event that led to the publication of Oersted 's discovery occurred during a private lecture made before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820 .
At this lecture Oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel to a magnetic needle .
Knowing specifically what the many feed additives can do and how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more profitable for beef , dairy , and sheep men .
The target chart quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what .
All the additives listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration of the federal government .
All comments concerning effectiveness and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary medical officer with FDA .
This article assumes that the rations you are feeding your beef , dairy cattle , and sheep are adequately balanced with protein , vitamins , and minerals .
The drug 's chemical name is listed , since most states require feed processors to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag .
In some instances , the trade name is shown in parentheses following the chemical name .
This indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on the feed tag .
Oxytetracycline hydrochloride -LRB- Terramycin -RRB- _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency , aids in the prevention or treatment -LRB- depending on level fed -RRB- of the early stages of shipping fever , prevents or treats bacterial diarrhea , and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
_ HOW TO FEED : BEEF CATTLE -LRB- FINISHING RATION -RRB- _ - To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 75 milligrams per head in daily supplement .
_ CALVES _ - To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 25 grams per ton of complete feed .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea -LRB- scours -RRB- , feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed .
For the treatment of bacterial scours , feed 100-200 grams .
For prevention or treatment of bacterial scours , feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
_ BEEF AND DAIRY _ - As an aid in reducing incidence and severity of bloat , provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per animal daily .
To reduce incidence of liver abscesses , supply 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline activity per head daily .
To prevent or treat bacterial diarrhea , furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily .
For the prevention or treatment of the early stages of shipping fever complex , increase feeding level to 0.5 to 2 grams per head per day .
For the best results , feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your feed lot .
For treatment of shipping fever , this level should be fed at the onset of the disease symptoms until symptoms disappear .
_ SHEEP _ - To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency , feed 10 to 20 grams per ton .
As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea -LRB- scours -RRB- , feed 50 grams per ton .
Chlortetracycline -LRB- Aureomycin -RRB- _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Increases gains , improves feed efficiency , and reduces losses from bacterial infections listed under `` how to feed '' section .
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties of this drug .
_ HOW TO FEED : BEEF _ - Not less than 70 milligrams of Aureomycin per head daily to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle .
Prevention of bacterial pneumonia , shipping fever , as an aid in reduction of losses due to respiratory infections -LRB- infectious rhinotracheitis - shipping fever complex -RRB- .
Feed at level of 70 milligrams per head per day .
Treatment of the above diseases : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
For prevention of these diseases during periods of stress such as shipping , excessive handling , vaccination , extreme weather conditions : 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days only .
As an aid in reducing bacterial diarrhea and preventing foot rot , feed not less than 0.1 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
To aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis , feed not less than 0.5 milligram per pound of body weight daily .
_ DAIRY _ - For calves , feed not less than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot .
For cows , feed providing an intake of 0.1 milligram of Aureomycin per pound of body weight daily aids in the reduction of bacterial diarrhea , in the prevention of foot rot , and in the reduction of losses due to respiratory infection -LRB- infectious rhinotracheitis - shipping fever complex -RRB- .
_ SHEEP _ - As an aid in reducing losses due to enterotoxemia -LRB- overeating disease -RRB- , feed a complete ration containing not less than 20 and not more than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton .
To reduce vibrionic abortion in breeding sheep , feed 80 milligrams per head daily .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Dynafac _ WHAT IT DOES : _ An aid in getting cattle and sheep on full feed , in improving feed conversion and growth , in reducing bloat and founder , and in controlling scours .
_ HOW TO FEED : BEEF AND DAIRY CALVES _ - 0.2 gram Dynafac per head daily -LRB- 1 gram of premix per head daily -RRB- for promoting growth , feed conversion , bloom , and full feed earlier .
_ FEEDER CATTLE _ - .0044 % Dynafac in a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day -LRB- 200 grams of premix per ton complete ration or equivalent .
Animals consuming 20 pounds feed daily receive 2 grams Dynafac -RRB- .
Aids in minimizing the occurrence of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates .
_ SHEEP AND LAMBS _ - 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth , feed conversion , and getting lambs on full feed earlier .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Diethylstilbestrol _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Increases rate of gain and improves feed efficiency .
_ HOW TO FEED : BEEF CATTLE _ - 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily .
This may be incorporated in complete feeds at the level of 0.4 milligram of diethylstilbestrol per pound of ration - assuming animal consumes about 25 pounds daily .
The drug is also incorporated in supplements .
These are to be fed at a rate to provide 10 milligrams DES per head daily .
The recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should be maintained .
It may be incorporated into cattle creep feeds in levels from 1.0 to 1.5 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per pound of feed .
_ SHEEP FATTENING RATIONS _ - The recommended level for sheep is 2 milligrams daily , and this level should be maintained .
Include supplement containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams per head per day .
_ CAUTION : _ Discontinue medication 48 hours before slaughter .
Hydroxazine hydrochloride _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Improves growth rate and feed efficiency of fattening beef animals .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ At the rate of 2-1/2 milligrams per head per day .
Iodinated casein _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Drug elevates the metabolic rate of the cow .
Fed to dairy cattle to increase milk production and butterfat percentage .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ 1 to 1-1/2 grams per 100 pounds of body weight .
_ CAUTION : _ Cows receiving drug may not be officially tested under breed registry testing programs .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Bacterial and fungal enzymes .
-LRB- These enzyme preparations appear on today 's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis , Apergillus orzae , Niger , and Flavus . -RRB-
_ WHAT IT DOES : _ Improves utilization of low-moisture corn -LRB- less than 14 % -RRB- .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture corn in beef-feeding programs .
Several firms are merchandising enzyme preparation through feed manufacturers .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Ronnel _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Effectively controls cattle grubs which damage hides and can reduce gains .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Drug is added to either a protein or mineral supplement for a period of 7 or 14 days .
Follow manufacturer 's recommendation carefully .
_ CAUTION : _ Do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days of slaughter .
Methyl polysiloxanes _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Aids in preventing foamy bloat .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ For prevention of foamy bloat , feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams per head per day in mineral or salt or feed .
For treatment of bloat , drug is fed at a higher level .
Phenothiazine _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Reduces losses from stomach , hookworm , and nodular worms by interfering with reproduction of the female worm by reducing the number of eggs laid and essentially rendering all laid eggs sterile .
Also , aids in the control of horn flies by preventing them from hatching in the droppings .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Treat cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 grams per animal .
Then , for the above parasites , feed continuously at these levels : Feeder cattle - 2-5 grams of phenothiazine daily ; beef calves - .5 to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal .
Treat lambs with 12 grams per head for lambs weighing up to 50 pounds ; treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal .
For continuous control , feed 1 part phenothiazine to 9 parts minerals or salts .
To include in feed , add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram per sheep daily .
_ CAUTION : _ Continuous administration is not recommended for lactating cows .
Following single-dose treatment , milk should be discarded for 4 days following treatment .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Procaine penicillin _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Aids in reducing the incidence and severity of bloat in beef or dairy cattle on legume pasture .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Feed 75,000 units or 75 milligrams per head daily .
Sodium propionate _ WHAT IT DOES : _ For the prevention or treatment of acetonemia -LRB- ketosis -RRB- in dairy cows .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ For the prevention of acetonemia -LRB- ketosis -RRB- feed 1/4 pound per day beginning at calving and continuing for 6 weeks .
For the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound per day for 10 days .
Sulfaquinoxaline _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis in lambs .
_ HOW TO FEED : LAMBS _ - feed at .05 % level for 2 or 3 days .
Dried rumen bacteria _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Stimulates rumen activity .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Incorporated in commercially prepared feed at proper levels .
#DRUG 'S CHEMICAL NAME : # Calcium and sodium lactate _ WHAT IT DOES : _ Prevents and treats acetonemia -LRB- ketosis -RRB- in dairy cows .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ For prevention of ketosis , feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 6 weeks commencing at calving time .
For treatment of ketosis , feed 1/2 pound daily until symptoms disappear .
Then , feed preventive dose until 6 weeks after calving .
Promazine hydrochloride _ WHAT IT DOES : _ A tranquilizer fed to cattle -LRB- other than lactating dairy cows -RRB- prior to their being subjected to stress conditions such as vaccinating , shipping , weaning calves , and excessive handling .
_ HOW TO FEED : _ Not less than .75 milligram but not more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight .
_ CAUTION : _ Additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are slaughtered .
There are three principal feed bunk types for dairy and beef cattle : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Fence-line bunks - cattle eat from one side while feed is put in from the opposite side of the fence by self-unloading wagons ; -LRB- 2 -RRB- Mechanized bunks - they sit within the feed lot , are filled by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface ; -LRB- 3 -RRB- Special bunks - as discussed here , they permit cattle to eat from all sides .
Feed is put in with an elevator .
Several materials or combinations of materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk .
The selection of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation , cost of materials available locally , and your own preference .
No one material is best for all situations .
Selecting bunks by economic comparison is usually an individual problem .
Animals eat only from one side , so the fence-line bunk must be twice as long as the mechanical bunk .
These bunks also serve as a fence , so part of the additional cost must be attributed to the fence .
Because of their location , on the edge of the feed lot , fence-line bunks are not in the way of mechanical manure removal .
Filling these bunks by the same self-unloading wagons used to fill silos spreads cost of the wagons over more time and operations .
All-weather roads must be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all year .
This will be a problem in areas of heavy snowfall .
MARKETING in the new decade will be no picnic - for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yr & .
Why ?
Companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies - in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged R+D facilities , faster new product development .
Many companies have upgraded their sales manpower and tested new selling , distribution , and promotion techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge .
Given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yr & ?
Based on our experience with clients , we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups - the market place itself , marketing methods , and marketing management .
_ @ GREATER PRICE-CONSCIOUSNESS .
_ There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent years ; there is every indication it will continue .
Frequently , wittingly or unwittingly , price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers , distributors , and dealers .
Despite generally good levels of income , we see greater price pressures than ever before - traveling back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer .
Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy will be on target : Has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ?
Have cost studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might be done if things get worse ?
Have you actually checked out -LRB- not just mentally tested -RRB- different selling approaches designed to counter the price competition problem ?
_ @ INCREASED CUSTOMER SOPHISTICATION .
_ Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions .
This problem can force a change in marketing approach in many kinds of businesses .
Have you examined this problem of increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company ?
_ @ GREATER DEMAND FOR SERVICES .
_ Need for service is here to stay - and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties .
There are two reasons for this .
First , most products tend to become more complex .
Second , in a competitive market , the customer feels his weight and throws it around .
providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product -RCB- .
Too often it is thought of at the last moment of new product introduction .
Good service starts with product design and planning : Many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one .
Proper follow-through requires training your own sales organization , and your distributor organizations , not only in the techniques but also in good customer relations .
Have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ?
_ @ WIDER DISCRETIONARY CHOICES FOR CUSTOMERS .
_ In spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions .
To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type product - the purchase of which can be switched , delayed , or put off entirely - the implications are important .
Your competition is now proportionately greater - you are competing not only against manufacturers in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers of other appealing consumer products .
Many industry trade associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share of the consumer 's dollar being spent on their particular products .
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole `` discretionary buying '' area ?
_ @ GEOGRAPHIC SHIFT OF CUSTOMERS .
_ The trends have been in evidence for many years - population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs .
These shifts will continue in the next 10 yr & .
Have you considered the implications of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation , strength of distributor organizations , and even plant location ?
_ @ MARKET CONCENTRATION AND DISTRIBUTION IN FEWER ACCOUNTS .
_ We have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry - at both the manufacturing and retail ends .
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts , there are now larger sales to or through fewer accounts .
The change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention - practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted .
Have you examined these trends , forecast the effects , and planned your marketing strategy to compete effectively under changing circumstances ?
# 2 .
PROBLEMS IN MARKETING METHODS # _ @ MORE PRIVATE LABEL COMPETITION .
_ In the area of private label competition , it is logical to expect a continuation of trends which have been under way during the first decade .
As mass dealer and distributor organizations grow in size , there is every reason to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer 's as well as the distributor 's profits - which is , in effect , what the sale of private brands tends to do .
average manufacturer frequently has helped build private brand business , delivering largely the same qualities and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded -RCB- .
Moreover , the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain stores have insisted on high quality - and the customer seems to have caught on .
If you are up against private brand competition , have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening your market position ?
If private brand competition has n't been felt in your product field as yet , have you thought how you will cope with it if and when it does appear ?
_ @ LESS PERSONAL SALESMANSHIP .
_ Display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties .
It has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program .
How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ?
If you have a higher-quality product , how can you make it stand out - justify its premium price - without the spoken word ?
Salesmanship is still necessary , but it 's a different brand of salesmanship .
Have you carefully examined the selling techniques which best suit your products ?
Have you studied the caliber and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements for effective marketing ?
Are you experimenting with different selling slants in developing new customers ?
_ @ HIGHER COSTS OF DISTRIBUTION GENERALLY .
_ Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive pressure , some by the fact that the customers have come to expect certain niceties and flourishes .
no manufacturer has taken the initiative in pointing out the costs involved -RCB- .
The use of bulk handling is continuously growing .
Computers are being used to keep branch inventories at more workable levels .
`` Selective selling '' - concentrating sales on the larger accounts - has been used effectively by some manufacturers .
There may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain .
Do you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully - and with some imagination ?
In your sales force , will a smaller number of higher-priced , high-quality salesmen serve you best , or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen ?
Will your trade customers settle for less attention and fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share ?
In one company covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men , the president personally phones each major account every 6 mos & .
As a result , distribution costs were cut , customer relations improved .
Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties - and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job .
_ @ HIGHER COSTS OF ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION .
_ From the manufacturer 's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties .
It is accentuated by the need for pre-selling goods , and private label competition .
How much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ?
Are you following competition willy-nilly - trying to match dollar for dollar - or are you experimenting with new means for reaching and influencing consumers ?
Have you evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion in your total marketing program - from the standpoint of effort , money , and effectiveness ?
_ @ INCREASING TEMPO OF NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT .
_ Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon .
Will you be out in the market place with some of these sales-building new products ?
If competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store .
On the other hand , the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing the new one is usually mighty expensive .
As markets become larger and marketing more complex , the costs of an error become progressively larger .
Is your R+D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ?
Are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with R+D people ?
technical knowledge is a wonderful thing , but it 's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register -RCB- .
Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; who can develop reliable estimates of sales volume , production , and distribution costs ; and translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which management can act on with some assurance ?
We have seen good new products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts and plans - and management could n't make up its mind .
# 3 .
PROBLEMS IN MARKETING MANAGEMENT # _ @ SHORTAGE OF SKILLED SALESMEN .
_ There is a shortage of salesmen today .
In the future , quantitative demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy , and the qualitative need will be greater still .
While many companies have done fine work in developing sales personnel , much of it has been product rather than sales training .
Nor has the training been enough in relation to the need .
Most marketing people agree it is going to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements .
Have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future -LRB- both quantitatively and qualitatively -RRB- ?
Has your company developed selection and training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen you will need in the next 10 yr & ?
_ @ SHORTAGE OF SALES MANAGEMENT TALENT .
_ With the growing complexity of markets and intensity of competition , sales management , whether at the district , region or headquarters level , is a tough job today - and it will be tougher in the future .
Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications called for by this type of management work .
The growth of business has outdistanced the available supply , and the demand will continue to exceed the supply in the sixties .
Does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ?
Does your management climate and your management compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people ?
_ @ COMPLEXITY OF COMPLETE MARKETING PLANNING .
_ Every single problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning .
`` Hip-pocket '' tactics are going to be harder to apply .
Many food and beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis .
They have to be .
With greater investments in plant facilities , with automation growing , you ca n't switch around , either in volume or in product design , as much as was formerly possible - or at least not as economically .
Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ?
We find too many sales and marketing executives so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning .
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ?
Do you have a long-term -LRB- 5 - or 10-yr & -RRB- marketing program ?
The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company 's marketing problems realistically .
Solutions frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems , whether they be in the market , in marketing methods or in marketing management .
If companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade .
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought clearly into focus one important difference of opinion .
The architects do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect and that , therefore , the interior designer is incapable of understanding the architectural principles involved in planning the interior of a building .
Ordinary politeness may have militated against this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables , workshops or panel discussions - whatever they are called - on this subject will recognize that the final , boiled down crux of the matter is education .
It is true that most architectural schools have five year courses , some even have six or more .
The element of public danger which enters so largely into architectural certification , however , would demand a prolonged study of structure .
This would , naturally , lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior designer 's training .
We may then dismiss the time difference between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior design student as not having serious bearing on the subject .
The real question that follows is - how are those four years used and what is their value as training ?
The American Institute of Interior Designers has published a recommended course for designers and a percentage layout of such a course .
An examination of some forty catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design , for the most part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of Schools of Art , and a further `` on the spot '' inspection of a number of schools , show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations .
One or two of the schools have a five year curriculum , but the usual pattern of American education has limited most of them to the four-year plan which seems to be the minimum in acceptable institutions .
The suggested course of the A&I&D & was based on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to curricular necessities .
Obviously , the four year provision limits this to fundamentals and much desirable material must be eliminated .
Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses - architecture versus interior design - let us examine the educational needs of the interior designer .
To begin with , what is an interior designer ?
`` The Dictionary of Occupational Titles '' published by the U & S & Department of Labor describes him as follows : `` Designs , plans and furnishes interiors of houses , commercial and institutional structures , hotels , clubs , ships , theaters , as well as set decorations for motion picture arts and television .
Makes drawings and plans of rooms showing placement of furniture , floor coverings , wall decorations , and determines color schemes .
Furnishes complete cost estimates for clients approval .
Makes necessary purchases , places contracts , supervises construction , installation , finishing and placement of furniture , fixtures and other correlated furnishings , and follows through to completion of project '' .
In addition to this the U & S & Civil Service Bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
He must be capable of designing for and supervising the manufacture of any craft materials needed in the furnishings '' .
This seems like a large order .
The interior designer , then , must first be an artist but also understand carpentry and painting and lighting and plumbing and finance .
Yet nobody will question the necessity of all this and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice it .
And further he must understand his obligation to the client to not only meet his physical necessities but also to enhance and improve his life and to enlarge the cultural horizon of our society .
Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording of their curriculum .
It is in the quality of the teaching of all this that a question may arise .
The old established independent art schools try their best to fulfill their obligations .
Yet even here many a problem is presented ; as in a recent design competition with a floor plan and the simple command - `` design a luxury apartment '' ; no description of the client or his cultural level , no assertion of geographical area or local social necessities - simply `` a luxury apartment '' .
Working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may please the public relations department but have little to do with the essence of interior design .
It is possible , of course , to work on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will explain their necessities so that the student may get `` the feel '' of real interior design demands .
Unfortunately , the purely synthetic problem is the rule .
It is like medical schools in India where , in that fairy-land of religious inhibition , the dissection of dead bodies is frowned upon .
Instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs of plants .
Thus technical efficiency is achieved at the expense of actual experience .
In the earlier years of training certain phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its use .
But to continue to divorce advanced students from reality is inexcusable .
Consultation with architects , clients , real estate men , fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development of class problems just as in actual work .
Fortunately , although only a few years ago they held the student at arms length , today the business houses welcome the opportunity to aid the student , not only from an increased sense of community responsibility but also from the realization that the student of today is the interior designer of tomorrow - that the student already is `` in the trade '' .
Even the `` history of furniture '' can hardly be taught exclusively from photographs and lantern slides .
Here , too , the reality of actual furniture must be experienced .
The professional organizations such as American Institute of Interior Designers , National Society of Interior Designers , Home Fashions League and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
Certainly every educator involved in interior design should be a member and active in thework of one of these organizations .
Not only should every educator above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of the professional organizations , but his first qualification for membership as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject .
Participation for the educator in this case , however , would have to be raised to full and complete membership .
The largest of these organizations at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the conduct and standards of the group and , indeed , refuses him even the right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog .
This anomalous status of the educator can not fail to lower his standing in the eyes of the students .
The professor in turn dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in the policies and standards of which he has no voice .
This seems somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced , the educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands .
In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to the schools .
That is in the continuance of the `` grandfather clauses '' in their membership requirements .
When these groups were first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were rare and undeveloped during their youth .
Long hard years of `` on the job '' training had brought them to their competence .
The necessity of that day has long disappeared .
There is plenty of opportunity for proper education today .
It is discouraging for students to realize that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they are supposed to stand .
The reason and the day of `` grandfather clauses '' has long since passed .
No one can deny that these `` back door '' admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents to membership in supposedly learned societies .
Beyond any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality of the teachers themselves .
It will occur to anyone that the teacher must have adequate education , a depth and breadth of knowledge far beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication to his subject and to his students .
The local decorator who rushes in for a few hours of teaching may but more likely may not have these qualifications .
Nor will the hack , the Jack-of-all-trades , still found in some of the smaller art schools , suffice .
Only a few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher of interior design .
At the end of its letter was the information that applicants for this position `` must also be prepared to teach costume design and advertising art '' .
This kind of irresponsibility toward their students can scarcely build a strong professional attitude in the future designer .
We must build a corp of highly professional teachers of interior design who have had education , experience in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments of teaching - minimal income and minimal status among their confreres .
Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture , furniture design , textiles and color is also desirable .
In all `` degree '' courses in interior design a number of `` academic '' or `` general studies '' courses are included .
It is only fair to demand that teachers of courses in English , history , psychology and so on be as well informed in matters of art , especially interior design , as are the art teachers educated in the academic subjects .
The proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only if this standard is observed .
The matter of sympathy of the academic professors for art objectives also must be taken into account .
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here .
For proper accreditation of schools , teachers in any course must have a degree at least one level above that for which the student is a candidate .
Since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate work in interior design this rule can not at present be observed .
Indeed , it has only been a matter of the last few years that reputable schools of art have granted degrees at all .
The question , however , can not be ignored for long .
The basic problem involved is that a college setting up a graduate school must have an entirely separate faculty for the advanced degree .
Most professors in the course must , naturally , again have a higher degree than the course offers .
One solution is the aquisition of degrees in education but it is a poor substitute .
It is a sort of academic ring-around-a rosy and you solve it .
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general .
Only the independent art schools , that is , those not connected with any university or college , receive severe and separate investigation before accreditation by the various regional organizations .
It has been the custom for most universities to stretch the blanket of accreditation for their liberal arts school to cover the shivering body of their fine arts department .
This , plus the habit of many schools of simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics department , yet , nevertheless , claiming that they teach interior design , has contributed to the low repute of many university courses in interior design .
In spite of this , many universities offer adequate and even distinguished courses in the subject .
There will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation - as do medical schools - by an art accreditation group such as the `` National Association of Schools of Art '' .
Independent art schools granting degrees must , naturally , follow this with academic accreditation by the appropriate regional group .
How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives of your benefit and service program ?
Have you permitted it to become a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee morale and , consequently , increased productivity ?
What effort do you make to assess results of your program ?
Do you measure its relation to reduced absenteeism , turnover , accidents , and grievances , and to improved quality and output ?
Have you set specific objectives for your employee publication ?
Is it reaching these goals ?
Is it larger or fancier than you really need ?
Are you using the most economical printing methods , paper , etc & .
Are there other , cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted ?
Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free `` government '' work in your plant ?
Is your purchasing agent offering too much free-buying service for employees ?
When improvements are recommended in working conditions - such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning - do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ?
When negotiating with your union , do you make sure employees have a choice between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages .
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ?
Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance entitles them ?
Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage of these benefits ?
Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value of the company 's share of insurance premiums ?
When did you last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance from other sources ?
Can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ?
Do you try to maintain the principle of employee-contributed -LRB- as opposed to fully company-paid -RRB- programs ?
Do you protect your holiday privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday ?
Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or industrial patterns ?
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ?
Are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ?
Are you watching work schedules for boiler operators , guards , and other 24-hour-day , 7-day-week operations in order to minimize overtime ?
Are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ?
Have you considered using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria employees ?
What are the possibilities for operating your cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines or prepackaged sandwiches for the second - and third-shift operations ?
Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ?
Are there possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or other jobs ?
Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ?
Would it be feasible to limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs ?
Have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ?
Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings or discussions ?
Are your expenses in this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from your program ?
Have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ?
Do employees contribute their share of money to recreational facilities ?
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant 's financial contribution ?
Could an employee 's garden club take over partial care of plant grounds ?
Would a camera club be useful in taking pictures pertinent to plant safety ?
Are you spending too much money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees ?
Are you underwriting expensive team trips ?
Are you utilizing vending machine proceeds to help pay for your program ?
#TRANSPORTATION AND PARKING # Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access roads and parking lots ?
If you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ?
Will your local bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant ?
If you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ?
If you use company transportation to meet trains or to haul visitors , would taxis be cheaper ?
How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ?
Can they be re-scheduled ?
Can part-time drivers be assigned to other productive work ?
Which is more economical for your plant - a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra employees for vacation fill-ins ?
Can vacations be spaced throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins ?
Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ?
What can your sales and purchasing departments do to curtail orders , shipments , and receipts during vacation shutdown periods ?
Is an arbitrary retirement age of 65 actually costing your plant money ?
What sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ?
Would early retirement of non-productive , disabled employees reduce the number of make-work jobs ?
Will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ?
Can you share medical facilities and staff with neighboring plants ?
If you have a full-time doctor now , can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves on a fee-per-case basis only ?
Can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ?
Do you rigidly distinguish between job - and non-job-connected health problems and avoid treating the latter ?
Are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services - flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc & ?
If you have an annual or regular physical examination program , is it worth what it is costing you ?
Consider what you can afford to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee benefit program .
Too many plant officials are all too eager to buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works for another plant .
But even if that other plant employs the same number of workers and makes the same product , there are other facts to consider .
How old is your working force ?
What 's your profit margin ?
In what section of the country are you located ?
Are you in a rural or urban area ?
These factors can make the difference between waste and efficiency in any benefit program .
Above all , do n't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good will .
Unions stress fringe benefits , but the individual hourly worker prefers cash every time .
Aim to balance your employee benefit package .
Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe - say a liberal retirement plan - and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere .
They 're asking for union trouble .
If you want credit for your employee services program , let your workers know what they 're entitled to .
Encourage them to exercise their benefits .
This can be done by stories in your house organs , posters , special publications , letters to workers ' homes as well as by word of mouth through your chain of command .
Some companies find a little imagination helpful .
Hallmark Cards , Inc & , Kansas City , Mo & , has a do-it-yourself quiz game called `` Benefit Bafflers '' , which it distributes to employees .
M + R Dietetic Laboratories , Inc & , Columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook - each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe .
U & S & Rubber Company , New York , passes out a form itemizing the value of benefits .
The blue-collar worker thus knows his insurance package , for example , costs $ 227.72 .
Have the insurance company or your own accounting department break down the cost of your insurance package periodically .
You may find certain coverage costing much more than is economically feasible , thereby alerting you to desirable revisions .
Check to see if some of your benefits - such as on-the-job disability pay - can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you .
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible .
It can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates .
Also , beware of open-end policies , especially in the medical field .
This will mean that every time there 's an increase in hospital rates your cost will go up in like manner .
Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits .
Do n't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death .
Generally , your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that protect him during his working life or during retirement .
#SPECIAL TIME OFF # In granting bereavement leaves , specify the maximum time off and list what the worker 's relation to the deceased must be to qualify .
Thus , you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth cousin 's funeral .
Also , reserve the right to demand proof of death despite the fact that you 'll probably never use it .
Coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated .
Vending machines can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting waste of production time .
If coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group .
Consider installing supplemental serving lines in production areas .
Make sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers , if you are supplying the coffee .
Otherwise , you may be saddled with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers .
Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company .
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest possible age .
Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements tied into your pension plan .
Younger men usually do n't think of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they 're liable to change jobs several times before settling down .
Choose carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans .
There are two sides of a coin for this decision .
Workers usually think more of a plan they contribute to .
And they can at least collect the money they put in , plus interest , when they leave the company .
A non-contributory plan usually wo n't pay off for the worker until he retires .
Thus , there is an added incentive to stay on the job .